To start, we are going to first review
what's probabilities and conditional
probabilities are, how they operate, and
how they can be expressed mathematically.
Then I'll go over how to derive Bayes'
rule from the definition of conditional
probabilities.
Bayes' rule is applied in many different
fields ranging from medicine to education
and is used extensively in NLP.
Once you understand the theory behind
Bayes' rule, you can use it to
perform sentiment analysis on tweets,
which will be this week's assignment.
Then in the next course,
you will Implement autocorrect using
its basic formulation as well.
Imagine you have an extensive corpus
of tweets that can be categorized
as either positive or
negative sentiment, but not both.
Within that corpus, the word happy is
sometimes being labeled positive and
sometimes negative.
Let's explore why this
situation is occurring,
one way to think about probabilities is
by counting how frequently events occur.
Suppose you defined events A as
a tweet being labeled positive,
then the probability of events
A shown as P of A here is
calculated as the ratio between
the count of positive tweets and
the corpus divided by the total
number of tweets in the corpus.
In this example, that number
comes out to 13 over 20 or 0.65.
You could also express that value
as a percentage, 65% positive.
It's worth noting that
the complementary probability here,
which is the probability of the tweets
expressing a negative sentiment
is just equal to one minus
the probability of a positive sentiment.
Notes that for this to be true,
all tweets must be categorized as either
positive or negative but not both.
Let's define events B in a similar way by
counting tweets containing the word happy.
In this case, the total number of
tweets containing the word happy
shown here as N happy is 4.
Here's another way of looking at it,
take a look at the section of the diagram
where tweets are labeled positive and
also contain the word happy.
In the context of this diagram,
the probability that a tweet is labeled
positive and also contains the word
happy is just the ratio of the area
of the intersection divided by
the area of the entire corpus.
In other words,
if there were 20 tweets in the corpus and
three of them are labeled positive and
also contain the word happy,
then the associated
probability is 3 / 20 or
or 0.15.